This exercise asked you to consider
two additional projects and the steps you'd
take to ensure that each of the projects would succeed.
Project 3 considered customer churn.
I'd recommend the following tale,
facilitate success of the project.
Churn prediction can have great benefits and
provide solid insight in a short amount of time.
As such, it's generally a good candidate for early adoption in the roadmap.
I would choose this project as one of the first completed in
order to generate momentum for data science in the business.
Generalization is a key here,
so I would make sure that we use
best practices to make sure we do not over fit the training
set at the expense of being able to predict churn on new customers.
I would work closely with marketing specialists who know
the customer to make sure that the factors identified by
the model as associated with churn are truly
actionable and irrelevant in crafting retention strategies.
Project 4 considered customer loyalty programs.
I'd recommend the following to help bring success to that project.
Projects such as this require lots of data from disparate sources.
I would make sure the data exists,
was of high-quality and could be integrated for machine learning use.
I would start small with a few targeted offers.
I'd measure and share initial results so that successes could generate
momentum for moving to more complex analyses and offers.
Finally, I would make sure to involve
marketing professionals in every step of the process.
Loyalty programs can become ineffective if they're implemented improperly.
For example, if multiple competing offers are sent to customers,
or if customers are repeatedly spammed with offers.
Before deploying any offers generated by data science models,
I would make sure that marketing experts agreed that the offers made sense in
the larger context of the company's branding and marketing efforts.